README.md, before:

# Data Cleaning Beginner

A series of tutorials on Data Cleaning and Processing

## Tutorials

1. [The complete beginner’s guide to data cleaning and preprocessing](https://towardsdatascience.com/the-complete-beginners-guide-to-data-cleaning-and-preprocessing-2070b7d4c6d) by [Annie Bonner](https://www.linkedin.com/in/contentsimplicity/?challengeId=AQHmwMSTsQYcZAAAAXLyZ7cpKbroCaomb_QZBJdpixQua482LOFNe9QZv2KBxKPkz6wcLwEpOi6kP5Vu-LcxDiTIpLfOC2M1jw&submissionId=1e12fbf4-4e33-1c16-56e6-b0908afde643)
2. Next

## Notes

1. Load data
2. Create independen partiiton using pandas dataframe *`.iloc[-range-].values`*, which returns a numpy array
3. Create dependent dataset partition
4. Impute, or replace, missing values
   1. Import from `from sklearn.impute import SimpleImputer`
   2. SimpleImputer takes missing values and a replacement strategy as inputs
   3. Replacement strategy can be:
      1. Mean
      2. Median
      3. Most Frequent
      4. Constant
5. Use imputer to fill in the missing values using values generated using data from the rest of the column
6. Categorical data isn't understood by algorithms, so we convert it into numerical ratios
7. We use label encoder to encode the column specified
8. However, these series of 1,2,3 could be misinterpretated as actually incremental values by the learner module, instead of the categorical values they are.
   1. insert about above from article
9. Thus, we use OneHotEncoder to split the column into columns of binary variables, one column each for each category
   1. Create encoder object
   2. Reshape row into column
   3. Perform fit and transform on data
   4. Convert to array
   5. Concatenate to x
10.
11. More Notes

```python
```

## Output

```markdown

```

## Figures

Add figures

## Project status

Project is currently under development.

Commit message:

Add notes for
Scaling the data

README.md, after:

# Data Cleaning Beginner

A series of tutorials on Data Cleaning and Processing

## Tutorials

1. [The complete beginner’s guide to data cleaning and preprocessing](https://towardsdatascience.com/the-complete-beginners-guide-to-data-cleaning-and-preprocessing-2070b7d4c6d) by [Annie Bonner](https://www.linkedin.com/in/contentsimplicity/?challengeId=AQHmwMSTsQYcZAAAAXLyZ7cpKbroCaomb_QZBJdpixQua482LOFNe9QZv2KBxKPkz6wcLwEpOi6kP5Vu-LcxDiTIpLfOC2M1jw&submissionId=1e12fbf4-4e33-1c16-56e6-b0908afde643)
2. Next

## Notes

1. Load data
2. Create independen partiiton using pandas dataframe *`.iloc[-range-].values`*, which returns a numpy array
3. Create dependent dataset partition
4. Impute, or replace, missing values
   1. Import from `from sklearn.impute import SimpleImputer`
   2. SimpleImputer takes missing values and a replacement strategy as inputs
   3. Replacement strategy can be:
      1. Mean
      2. Median
      3. Most Frequent
      4. Constant
5. Use imputer to fill in the missing values using values generated using data from the rest of the column
6. Categorical data isn't understood by algorithms, so we convert it into numerical ratios
7. We use label encoder to encode the column specified
8. However, these series of 1,2,3 could be misinterpretated as actually incremental values by the learner module, instead of the categorical values they are.
   1. insert about above from article
9. Thus, we use OneHotEncoder to split the column into columns of binary variables, one column each for each category
   1. Create encoder object
   2. Reshape row into column
   3. Perform fit and transform on data
   4. Convert to array
   5. Concatenate to x
10. Data should be of the same scale, otherwise the manhattan distance between different attributes will lead the model to place greater importance than not on attributes with unusual scales, and relationships between attributes with a great scale difference
    1. insert about above from article
    2. Scaled data will bring all the data in the same ranges
    3. it's not advised to do this for binary or dummy variables, since this might significantly change their meaning
    4. insert about above from article
11. Scale data using StandardScaler
    1. Create scaler object
    2. partition out range of variables that need scaling
    3. Perform fit and transform on data
    4. Concatenate scaled data to rest of the dataset
12. More Notes

```python
```

## Output

```markdown

```

## Figures

Add figures

## Project status

Project is currently under development.
